# A tiny SBT plugin to make scalac brutal and merciless

`HardenedScalac.harden` aims to enable every scalac warnings to improve code quality. It
 adds the following options to scalac:

- **-Xfatal-warnings** :                 Fail the compilation if there are any warnings.
- **-deprecation** :                     Emit warning and location for usages of deprecated APIs.
- **-explaintypes** :                    Explain type errors in more detail.
- **-feature** :                         Emit warning and location for usages of features that should be imported explicitly.
- **-language:postfixOps** :             Allow postfix operator notation, such as `1 to 10 toList`
- **-language:implicitConversions** :    Allow definition of implicit functions called views
- **-language:higherKinds** :            Allow higher-kinded types
- **-language:existentials** :           Existential types (besides wildcard types) can be written and inferred
- **-language:experimental.macros** :    Allow macro defintion (besides implementation and application)
- **-unchecked** :                       Enable detailed unchecked (erasure) warnings
- **-future** :                          Turn on future language features.
- **-Xlint:_** :                        Enable or disable specific warnings: `_` for all, `-Xlint:help` to list
- **-Xlog-free-terms** :                 Print a message when reification creates a free term.
- **-Xlog-free-types** :                 Print a message when reification resorts to generating a free type.
- **-Xlog-reflective-calls** :           Print a message when a reflective method call is generated.
- **-Xverify** :                         Verify generic signatures in generated bytecode (asm backend only).
- **-Ybreak-cycles** :                   Attempt to break cycles encountered during typing
- **-Yinline-warnings** :                Emit inlining warnings. (Normally surpressed due to high volume)
- **-Yno-adapted-args** :                Do not adapt an argument list (either by inserting () or creating a tuple) to match the receiver.
- **-Yreify-copypaste** :                Dump the reified trees in copypasteable representation.
- **-Ywarn-dead-code** :                 Warn when dead code is identified.
- **-Ywarn-inaccessible** :              Warn about inaccessible types in method signatures.
- **-Ywarn-infer-any** :                 Warn when a type argument is inferred to be `Any`.
- **-Ywarn-nullary-override** :          Warn when non-nullary `def f()` overrides nullary `def f`.
- **-Ywarn-nullary-unit** :              Warn when nullary methods return Unit.
- **-Ywarn-numeric-widen** :             Warn when numerics are widened.
- **-Ywarn-unused** :                    Warn when local and private vals, vars, defs, and types are are unused.
- **-Ywarn-unused-import** :             Warn when imports are unused.
- **-Ywarn-value-discard** :             Warn when non-Unit expression results are unused.


`HardenedScalac.optimze` aims to enable every scalac optimizations to improve code efficiency (the exact meaning of this is yet to be defined).
 It adds the following options to scalac:

 - **-Xprint-icode** :                    Log internal icode to *.icode files after <phases>
 - **-optimize** :                        Generates faster bytecode by applying optimisations to the program
 - **-Yclosure-elim** :                   Perform closure elimination.
 - **-Yconst-opt** :                      Perform optimization with constant values.
 - **-Ydead-code** :                      Perform dead code elimination.
 - **-Ydelambdafy:inline** :              Strategy used for translating lambdas into JVM code. (inline,method) default:inline
 - **-Yinline** :                         Perform inlining when possible.
 - **-Yinline-handlers** :                Perform exception handler inlining when possible.
 - **-Yopt:_** :                          Enable optimizations: `_` for all, `-Yopt:help` to list
 - **-Ybackend:GenBCode** :               Choice of bytecode emitter. (GenASM,GenBCode) default:GenASM
 - **-Yshow-symkinds** :                  Print abbreviated symbol kinds next to symbol names.
 - **-Yshow-symowners** :                 Print owner identifiers next to symbol names.


## Getting Starded

It's not published anywhere so you have to clone it and publish it locally:

```bash
sbt publish-local
```

Then, just add to your `project/plugins.sbt` file

```scala
addSbtPlugin("sbt_harden_scalac" % "sbt_harden_scalac" % "0.0.1")
```

and to your `build.sbt` file

```scala
sbt_harden_scala.SbtHardenScalac.harden
sbt_harden_scala.SbtHardenScalac.optimize
```
